README.md, before:

# Description
A generate easy to write `latex` typset resumes using a `toml` configuration file, parser is written in `Go`. 
The resume template is taken from [This Repo](https://github.com/jakegut/resume/), being minorly changed to allow for any font use.

# Usage Guide

Cofigure the `.toml` file as desired, then run the parser, resulting in a `.tex` file.
To compile the `.tex` file, ensure LaTeX is installed, the chosen font is installed as part of your system and compile using `XeLaTeX` or `LuaLaTeX`.


![example](https://github.com/eitanoid/toml-resume/blob/main/examples/examplecv.png)

## Running the program:

- Git clone this repo into a directory.

- Install all external dependancies:
  `go get github.com/pelletier/go-toml/v2`

- Build the Go project by running `Go build`

- Run the binary with the flags: `./tomlresume -input="input.toml" -output="output.tex"`

- Compile the resulting `.tex` file using `xelatex` or `lualatex` for examole using latexmk: `latexmk -xelatex out.tex`

## TOML guide:


The format and settings of the output structure can be configured:
```toml
[config]
font_size=10 # 10, 11, 12 as per latex's document class sizes
font_scale=1 # multiplicative font scaling
page_margin=1.5 #in centimeters
font="Calibri" #your system font of choice

# Case sensitive. Specify each section exactly as you defined it. Repeats are allowed.
section_order=["Technical Skills","Education","Work Experience","Projects"] 

# Format of each entry types's headers, play around with it until you're happy!
education_header_order=["institution", "dates", "title", "location"]
experience_header_order=["institution","dates","title","location"]
project_header_order=["title, dates"]
```

As part of the `.toml` file, the resume structure is as follows:

```toml
[header]
#settings you can play around with:
header_format=["email", "linkedin","github", "phone"]
name_size=14 #font size in pt.

#your personal details:
name="Your Full Name"
location="Location, Earth"
phone="+xxx xxxxx xxxxxx"
email="your\\_email@email.com" 
# as the document is interpreted into tex, special characters like '_' '&' '%' in must be escaped by adding a '\' before them.
# \ beings an escape sequence in the toml specification. To add a '\' into the tex code, we must escape the '\'. That is '\\' interpretes into '\'.
# and '\\_' interpretes in to '\_' in tex, and to '_' in the final document.
linkedin="linkedin.com/your-linkedin"
github="github.com/your-github"

[[section."Work Experience"]] # creates the section "Work Experience" and adds an entry into it.
header_style="experience" #other options are: "Education", "Project". not setting this defaults to "experience".
title="Your Job Title"
institution="Company Name"
location="Place, Locaiton"
dates="November 2022 - December 2024"
bulletpoints=[
			"Accomplishment 1.",
			"Accomplishment 2.",
			"Accomplishment 3.",
			]


[[section."Work Experience"]] # this is another addition to "Work Experience".
header_style="experience"
title="Your Job Title"
institution="2nd Company Name"
location="Place, Locaiton"
dates="Date - Another Date"
bulletpoints=[
			"Accomplishment 1 at 2nd company.",
			"Accomplishment 2 at 2nd company.",
			"Accomplishment 3 at 2nd company.",
			]

[[section."Education"]] 
header_style="education" # education entries are identical to experience ones, only differing on the header order config.
title="Your Degree"
institution="University of Universities"
location="Place, Locaiton"
dates="Date - Another Date"
bulletpoints=[] # bulletpoints can be empty.


[[section."Projects"]] 
header_style="project" # project headers are shorter and only determined by a title and a date.
title="This is my first project"
dates="Date - Another Date"
bulletpoints=[
			"Really cool project, does really cool things.",
			]

[[section."Projects"]] 
header_style="project" 
title="This is my first project"
description="Tools used in this project" # Inline description or summary.
dates="Date - Another Date"
bulletpoints=[
			"Really cool project, does really cool things.",
			]


[[section."Technical Skills"]] # this section is composed of bulletpoints only. Any other entries will be ignored when Points are present.
Points."These points"="Are stored as key-value pairs."
Points."This test is bold"="this text isn't."
```

# To do list:
- Parse font, font size etc into the preamble document.
- Redo links in header potentially?

Commit message:

completed toml parsing. now all config settings take effect in the document. readme has instructions on overleaf use.

README.md, after:

# Description
A generate easy to write `latex` typset resumes using a `toml` configuration file, parser is written in `Go`. 
The resume template is taken from [This Repo](https://github.com/jakegut/resume/), being minorly changed to allow for any font use.

# Usage Guide

Cofigure the `.toml` file as desired, then run the parser, resulting in a `.tex` file.
To compile the `.tex` file, ensure LaTeX is installed, the chosen font is installed as part of your system and compile using `XeLaTeX` or `LuaLaTeX`.


![example](https://github.com/eitanoid/toml-resume/blob/main/examples/examplecv.png)

## Running the program:

- Git clone this repo into a directory.

- Install all external dependancies:
  `go get github.com/pelletier/go-toml/v2`

- Build the Go project by running `Go build`

- Run the binary with the flags: `./tomlresume -input="input.toml" -output="output.tex"`

- Compile the resulting `.tex` file using `xelatex` or `lualatex` for examole using latexmk: `latexmk -xelatex out.tex`

<details>
  <summary>Compiling the output file with Overleaf</summary>
    
### Guide:
1. After running the toml interpreter, create a new Overleaf project and upload `preamble.tex` and your `output.tex` file.
2. Upload your desired font files into the Overleaf document (eg. calibri-xyz.tff).
3. Inside the `preamble.tex` document, changed the line:
```tex
\setmainfont[
	...
]{Calibri} % Where Calibri can be any system font name.
```
To
```tex
\setmainfont[
    ...
    BoldFont=calibri-bold.ttf,
    ItalicFont=calibri-italic.ttf,
    BoldItalicFont=calibri-bold-italic.ttf]{calibri-regular.ttf}
```
that is, a path to your font files on the Overleaf project, and what to use for each text style.

4. In the settings menu, change the rendering engine from 'PDFLaTeX' to 'XeLaTeX' or 'LuaLaTeX'.

5. Compile the document to get an output pdf.

</details>

## TOML guide:

The format and settings of the output structure can be configured:
```toml
[config]
font_size=10 # 10, 11, 12 as per latex's document class sizes
font_scale=1 # multiplicative font scaling
page_margin=1.5 #in centimeters
font="Calibri" #your system font of choice

# Case sensitive. Specify each section exactly as you defined it. Repeats are allowed.
section_order=["Technical Skills","Education","Work Experience","Projects"] 

# Format of each entry types's headers, play around with it until you're happy!
education_header_order=["institution", "dates", "title", "location"]
experience_header_order=["institution","dates","title","location"]
project_header_order=["title, dates"]
```

As part of the `.toml` file, the resume structure is as follows:

```toml
[header]
#settings you can play around with:
header_format=["email", "linkedin","github", "phone"]
name_size=14 #font size in pt.

#your personal details:
name="Your Full Name"
location="Location, Earth"
phone="+xxx xxxxx xxxxxx"
email="your\\_email@email.com" 
# as the document is interpreted into tex, special characters like '_' '&' '%' in must be escaped by adding a '\' before them.
# \ beings an escape sequence in the toml specification. To add a '\' into the tex code, we must escape the '\'. That is '\\' interpretes into '\'.
# and '\\_' interpretes in to '\_' in tex, and to '_' in the final document.
linkedin="linkedin.com/your-linkedin"
github="github.com/your-github"

[[section."Work Experience"]] # creates the section "Work Experience" and adds an entry into it.
header_style="experience" #other options are: "Education", "Project". not setting this defaults to "experience".
title="Your Job Title"
institution="Company Name"
location="Place, Locaiton"
dates="November 2022 - December 2024"
bulletpoints=[
			"Accomplishment 1.",
			"Accomplishment 2.",
			"Accomplishment 3.",
			]


[[section."Work Experience"]] # this is another addition to "Work Experience".
header_style="experience"
title="Your Job Title"
institution="2nd Company Name"
location="Place, Locaiton"
dates="Date - Another Date"
bulletpoints=[
			"Accomplishment 1 at 2nd company.",
			"Accomplishment 2 at 2nd company.",
			"Accomplishment 3 at 2nd company.",
			]

[[section."Education"]] 
header_style="education" # education entries are identical to experience ones, only differing on the header order config.
title="Your Degree"
institution="University of Universities"
location="Place, Locaiton"
dates="Date - Another Date"
bulletpoints=[] # bulletpoints can be empty.


[[section."Projects"]] 
header_style="project" # project headers are shorter and only determined by a title and a date.
title="This is my first project"
dates="Date - Another Date"
bulletpoints=[
			"Really cool project, does really cool things.",
			]

[[section."Projects"]] 
header_style="project" 
title="This is my first project"
description="Tools used in this project" # Inline description or summary.
dates="Date - Another Date"
bulletpoints=[
			"Really cool project, does really cool things.",
			]


[[section."Technical Skills"]] # this section is composed of bulletpoints only. Any other entries will be ignored when Points are present.
Points."These points"="Are stored as key-value pairs."
Points."This test is bold"="this text isn't."
```

# To do list:
- Parse font, font size etc into the preamble document.
- Redo links in header potentially?
